Software Requirements

Jenny Tie, Lucas Lu, Zach Wang, Ryan Schultz


Preface

This draft summarizes the basic features and requirements of the website and
some information about the hardware requirement and the equipment we may need to
use for Kenyon Canopy data visualization.


Introduction

The Gund Gallery has asked for a web-based interactive application that would be
released in anticipation of the Spring 2021 Art of Trees exhibition. The system
would work both as a marketing device to increase the excitement for the
exhibition and an educational tool for users to understand the impact of tree
loss on Kenyon and beyond.

The user of the system should be able to interact with the system in order to
make decisions that would reveal some aspects of tree loss and its
environmental impact.


Glossary

1. R

  a. R is a programming language primarily used for statistical computing.

2. Shiny

  a. Shiny is package within R that extends the capabilities of the R
  programming language to be able to develop interactive web-based data
  visualizations

3. Matrix

  a. A multi-dimensional table-like structure that stores data

  b. Fig.1 (Image from Wikipedia)

4. Vector

  a. Essentially a list of data (could be thought of as a one-dimensional
  matrix)

5. Class

  a. A programming abstraction for real world things

  b. For example, there may be a class of Doors so within your program you can
  create virtual abstractions for any type of door.

6. Modular

  a. A software design technique that emphasizes separating the functionality
  of a program into independent, interchangeable modules.

7. RAIL Model

  a. A measure of web page performance introduced by Google that sets
  performance standards to ensure a good user experience.

8. Robust

  a. A software development error-handling technique that attempts to keep the
  software running even when errors are encountered.

9. DBH

  a. Diameter at breast height, or DBH, is a standard number of expressing the
  diameter of the trunk or bole of a standing tree. DBH is typically measured
  at 4.5 ft above the ground. It is used in estimating the amount of timber
  volume in a single tree.


User Requirements Definition

Non-functional requirements:

The system needs to use Kenyon tree loss data (March 2018-December 2019). It
needs to be accessed through Gund Gallery’s website, used in areas with dim
lighting, and could be potentially shareable on social media.

Functional Requirements (which is further developed in System Requirement
Specification):

The software is expected to be a simulation of tree loss that the user
controls. The user needs to control the number of trees in the system and the
software needs to calculate the ecological effects that removing or adding
trees has on the local environment.

For version 1 of the system, we plan to have two main components for our user
interface: a user input component and a component that shows output. The user
input component will be controlled by two sliders. One allows users to select
the number of trees in the system, from 0-108. The other slider allows the user
to select the diameter at breast height of the trees. After they select the
desired number of trees and the diameter of those trees, the interface will
output an “ecosystem health score” that corresponds to those changes.

The ecosystem health score ranges from 0-100, and it is the equivalent to the
percentage of the total annual benefits of all of the trees, which are measured
in dollars. We choose to use this ecological marker because it is the sum of
all of the other environmental factors measured in dollars, including CO2
sequestration, storm water runoff avoided, and air pollution removed. We have
built simplified models for the relationships between tree diameters, tree
number, and total annual benefits for the purpose of version 1. Because we are
treating trees of the same diameter as equal, the relationship between diameter
and benefits per tree is a linear model. The relationship between the tree
number and benefit per tree is constant. Hence, our mathematical model is as
follows:

Total Benefits = Benefit/tree * Number of Trees

Benefit/tree= B1*Diameter  (B1 will be calculated by R)

When the user manipulates the sliders for number of trees and DBH, the system
will calculate the Total Benefits. The Total Benefits will then be converted
into the ecosystem health score, which is the current percentage out of the
maximum total benefit possible. The mathematical model is as follows:

Ecological Health Score = Total Benefits / Max(Total Benefits)

Max(Total Benefits) = Benefit/tree * Max(Number of Trees)

Benefit/tree = B1* Max(DBH)  (B1 will be calculated by R)

Max(Number of Trees) = 108

Max(DBH) = 50 inches

The ecosystem health score will be accompanied with a visual effect. There will
be a colored halo around the ecosystem health score, and as the score goes
down, a corresponding percentage of the colored halo will be whited out.

Fig.2 (Version 1)

Later versions (which are also referred to in the System Evolution) will be
updated as the sliders are removed and the users will be able to delete trees
one by one on a map. We will keep the ecosystem health score, but it will be
based on individual data of each tree (diameter, age, and species) rather than
a simplified model.  Deleting individual trees provides a greater attachment,
keeping the attention of users longer and prompting them to make decisions that
matter and have consequences. This will correspond to the goal of this project
to make trees loss more personal.


System Architecture

A high-level overview of the system architecture

Fig.3


System Requirements Specification

Program Organization

For our program we are tentatively planning for three different subsystems: a
user interface subsystem, a data processing subsystem, and a data management
subsystem. The user interface subsystem is responsible for giving the user
options to change inputs and displaying outputs to the user. In our first
version, the user will have two sliders to select the number of trees in the
environment and the average diameter breast height of trees and they will be
shown the output, which is the ecosystem health score, based on these changes
through the math model written in R. Our data processing subsystem is
responsible for taking the input data from the user and, using the tree data we
are provided with, calculating the environmental impact based on the change in
trees. We may or may not need a subsystem for data management. Normally, this
would entail searching, retrieving, and editing data held within a database or
data file. However, since R is a programming language made for statistical
computing, it is very adept at managing data without us having to write custom
functions to search, retrieve, and edit the data.

Major Classes

The programming language we are using, R, does not support classes in the
traditional sense. However, we could still implement abstract data types. An
abstract data type works very similarly to a class in the sense it serves as an
abstraction for some real world entity. Classes have a bit more flexibility
that we will have to do without. Currently we can create abstract data types
for the ecosystem by having a vector that contains the trees within the
ecosystem. Each tree will itself be an abstract data type. Functions in our
program that would normally be contained in our classes will have to be stored
outside of classes. Our program is small enough that this lack of information
hiding shouldn’t increase complexity too much.

Data Design

We plan on storing our data (data on 108 trees) in a single Excel file. This
file will likely be imported directly into R for easy manipulation. We do not
plan on storing any user data or input. Input does not need to be stored
because we do not plan on collecting the history of user choices or allowing
them to undo their choices. There is no need to collect user data because we do
not plan on having user sign-in or needing to track if the user has recently
visited the webpage.

Business Rules

There are no expected business rules at this time

User Interface Design

We expect our user interface to repeatedly change throughout the lifecycle of
this program as we develop new versions. Because of the high likelihood of
change our user interface needs to be modularized which will allow us to
substitute change easier. Our user interface plans to have two main components:
a user input component and a component that shows output. In the initial
version, user input is controlled by a slider which allows users to select the
number of trees in the system. Output will be a bar chart of several factors
that measure the health of the ecosystem so users can see the impact of the
change in trees on the environment. In future versions, input will be changed
from a single slider to hand deleting trees by clicking on trees located on a
virtual map of the Kenyon grounds (like the one in Google map). Output will be
changed from a bar chart to a heat map of the Kenyon ground where as trees are
deleted the map will change color from green to red, showcasing the negative
impact on the ecosystem.

Resource Management

We expect our program to be small enough to not have scarce resources

Security

Our only external interface is through user input controlled by two sliders or
by deleting trees from a map. We have not identified any threats that would
require us to write secure code that would come from this external interface.

Performance

To create the best user experience we would like to conform to the RAIL model.
The RAIL model is a specific standard for performance that is centered on
creating a better user experience. This includes attempting to respond to user
input in under 100ms and loading any interactive content in under 5,000ms.

Scalability

The system is not expected to grow and scalability is not an issue.

Interoperability

We do not expect to share resources with other software and hardware.

Input/Output

We do not have any specific plans for a reading scheme or a plan for the level
at which input and output errors are detected.

Error Processing

Error processing is not a high priority goal for this project. However, errors
will inevitably occur during the lifecycle of our program so we will plan to
follow the following guidelines. Our error processing will attempt to be
corrective. As we will try to change errors in things such as input by
defaulting to a standard input. Our input is simple enough that if we find a
value that doesn’t make sense we can correct the error by resetting the input to
something that makes sense. Our error processing will also be active. Errors
will be actively searched for by checking input and output as it comes in and
is sent out, respectively. Our error messages sent to the user will be
standardized to minimize complexity of the user experience when users come
across errors. Errors will be dealt with at the point of detection. Errors will
not be sent to a seperate location to be dealt with. Similarly, all
subsystems will be responsible for validating their own input and output
data. We do not have any plans for error propagation.

Fault Tolerance

We do not have any complex plans for fault tolerance. If an error occurs that
stops the functioning of the program, the program will have to be restarted.

Sustainability

If time allows sustainable, “green” software techniques may be implemented.
However, the system will not be planned to be sustainable because it is outside
the scope of the project and our software is reasonably small so it should not
contribute to a large carbon footprint.

Architectural Feasibility

We think that this system is feasible.

Over engineering

We are not planning for the program to be anymore than minimally robust.

Reuse Decisions

We will be reusing the frameworks for two different shiny applications and
attempting to integrate the two of them:
https://github.com/marcusyoung/beat_the_trend,
https://github.com/utah-dwq/LakeProfileDashboard.


System Models

Fig.4 (Activity Diagram for the System)

Fig.5 (Event-driven Model for the System)

Fig.6 (Data-driven Model for the System)


System Evolution

We identified 3 versions of the software that we planned to attempt: version 1
(V1), version 2 (V2), and version 3 (V3). V1 is a basic simulation that is
similar to the first example (https://marcus.shinyapps.io/bus_simulator/) under
the Appendices.

To build V1, we will set up data that average the quantifiable features of all
the trees, meaning that we will summarize the data from Kenyon Canopy and
consider these trees as the same (of course this action will reduce accuracy).
The user can control two sliders. One allows users to select the number of
trees from 0-108, the other allows users to select the diameter at breast
height (DBH) of the trees. After they select the number of trees and the DBH of
those trees, the interface will output an “ecosystem health score” that
corresponds to those changes.  According to our plan, V1 will be accomplished
on April 4th.

Starting from V1, V2 will be developed by implementing addition and
simplification to V1. The two sliders will be removed from the website. The
webpage will still include the colored halo with the ecosystem health score in
it from V1 and we will add a virtual map of the Kenyon grounds where users can
delete trees located on the map, where trees will be represented by dots. To be
more specific, users can click any individual tree on the map and then at a
corner of the webpage, the interface will exhibit all the information of the
tree with a delete button under it, and by clicking the delete button, the dot
that represents that tree will disappear on the map. V2 is planned to be
completed on April 25th.

The final version, V3, will have all the features from V2 and the map will be
further changed in order to display a heat grid for ecological impact, ranging
from green to red, which will make the visualization more direct. The final
version is planned to be done by May 3rd.


Appendices

Component for the sliders (reference):

Sliders: We plan to utilize the slider app from the Shiny library and customize
it to our needs. We will create slider controls through Shiny’s pre-written
code. The server side of the Slider application creates a data frame containing
all of the input values and then renders it as an HTML table.

Fig.7

Component for the map (reference):

We plan to download a map of Kenyon from Google and display it using R’s
leaflet library for visual output.

Fig.8


Index

Preface------------------------------------------------------------------------1

Introduction-------------------------------------------------------------------1

Glossary-----------------------------------------------------------------------1

User Requirement Definition----------------------------------------------------2

System Architecture------------------------------------------------------------3

System Requirement Specification-----------------------------------------------4

System Models------------------------------------------------------------------6

System Evolution---------------------------------------------------------------7

Appendices---------------------------------------------------------------------8
