Software Requirements

Jenny Tie, Lucas Lu, Zach Wang, Ryan Schultz


Preface:

This draft summarizes the basic features and requirements of the website and
some information about the hardware requirement and the equipment we may need
to use for Kenyon Canopy data visualization.


Introduction:

The Gund Gallery has asked for a web-based interactive application that would
be released in anticipation of the Spring 2021 Art of Trees exhibition. The
system would work both as a marketing device to increase the excitement for the
exhibition and an educational tool for users to understand the impact of tree
loss on Kenyon and beyond.

The user of the system should be able to interact with the system in order to
make decisions that would reveal some aspects of tree loss and its
environmental impact.


Glossary:

Definitions of technical terms


User Requirements Definition:

Functional Requirements:
The general expectations of the system are three-pronged: marketing,
educational, and logistical. For the marketing aspect, the system needs to
excite users for the Gund Gallery Art of Trees exhibition. For the educational
component, the software should give the user a concrete awareness and literacy
of the effect of tree loss in local environments, and give them the means to
connect it to the larger issue of global warming. In addition, it should
connect tree loss to their own personal relationships with trees. In essence,
when the user learns facts about tree loss, they need to make a connection to
the big picture (climate change) and the personal picture (their own
relationship). In order to do so, the trees should be personalized and the experience should be gamified.


Logistically, the user should be able to physically interact with the software
and the equipment provided by the Gund Gallery.

Non-functional requirements:
The system needs to use Kenyon tree loss data (March 2018-December 2019). It
needs to be accessed through Gund Gallery’s website, used in areas with dim
lighting, and could be potentially shareable on social media.

System Architecture:

A high-level overview of the system architecture
Database
Main Page: Data Visualization + Other functionalities
Data Visualization: Interactive interface
Interactive interface: Taking input + Visual output


System Requirements Specification:

For the system, the tentative requirements are as follows:
1. The database should be linked to the website to store user personalization
and support the operation of the webpage.
2. The home page should provide a layout of possible functionalities.
3. Data visualization section should be able to visualize the original data.
4. The interactive interface should allow user inputs and generate live
visualization based on user-personalized data.
5. The system should be able to generate shareable pages and store the
generated results in the database.
6. The system should provide a guided interpretation of the environmental
impact of the loss of trees.
7. Other functionalities are to be determined.


System Models:

Graphical representations of the relationships between system components, the
system, and its environment


System Evolution:

Fundamental assumptions
Anticipated changes due to hardware evolution


Appendices:


Index:
